# FundResearch

@Author: Yifan Mei

This paper is discussing how can we predict “output”, as measured by publications and citations, based on specific conditioning factors including:Project size as proxied by total expenditures, Relative portion of funding allocated to faculty, staff, and students, Funding mechanism (competitive, formula, other), Basic vs. applied science proportions, Time since completion, Science area (keywords) based on the data awarded by USDA to researchers at the University of Wisconsin--Madison during the period 2008-2016. 

The main challenge for the project are: How to organize data from 4 different excel tables to put them together; How to deal with the missing data;How to deal with the data values we get from the data base and transform them in.
Two multiple linear regression models are applied to either publication number or maximium citation number of the projects' publications (we choose max citation number of publication instead of sum of citation numbers because of the high similarity of publications within the same project. It is not reasonable to count the similar papers citation for different times.) over the factors we interested plus two impportant factors that affect publication number and citation number: publication journals' impact factors and the cost of time for each project. The result is as following:

For the publication numbers, we have strong evidence to say that the increase of 1,000,000 us dollar total expenditure is related to the increase of 2 publications, and we have weak evidence to say the more total days spent on the project also leads to increase of publication with 10000 days leader to increase of 1.8 publications. Besides, we have weak evidence to say the interaction of funding mechanisum: NIFA NON FORMULA and other study fields contributes to the increase of publication number. Once these two interacted, it leades to 4.61 publication increase.

For the maximal citation number, we have strong evidence to say that the funding mechanisum: NIFA NON FORMULA and the time since the project ends contributes to the increase of maximium citation number of the project's publiations. For a Nifa non formula mechanism, the max citation is 2.5. For the increase of 100 day the project ends, the max citation increase 1. Meanwhile, we have moderate evidence on the interaction of mechanism NIFA Non furmula and the study field: agriculture and medical and multisubjects that they leads to the decrease of maximium citation number on 25.32, 33.97, 32.06, which means that these field are not attract readers a lot. Besides, we weak evidence to say that 100 more total spend date, 1.131 more the maximium citation.
